cookbook/recipes/bundles/README.md, before:

# Bundles

This recipe adds special styling for product bundles on your Hydrogen
storefront. Customers will see badges and relevant cover images for bundles
when they're viewing product and collection pages.

In this recipe you'll make the following changes:

1. Set up the Shopify Bundles app in your Shopify admin and create a new
product bundle.
2. Update the GraphQL fragments to query for bundles to identify bundled
products.
3. Update the product and collection templates to display badges on product
listings, update the copy for the cart buttons, and display bundle-specific
information on product and collection pages.
4. Update the cart line item template to display the bundle badge as needed.

## Requirements

To use product bundles, you need to install a bundles app in your Shopify admin.
In this recipe, we'll use the [Shopify Bundles app](https://apps.shopify.com/shopify-bundles).

## Ingredients

_New files added to the template by this recipe._

| File | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [app/components/BundleBadge.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/cookbook/recipes/bundles/ingredients/templates/skeleton/app/components/BundleBadge.tsx) | A badge displayed on bundle product listings. |
| [app/components/BundledVariants.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/cookbook/recipes/bundles/ingredients/templates/skeleton/app/components/BundledVariants.tsx) | A component that wraps the variants of a bundle product in a single product listing. |

## Steps

### Step 1: Set up the Shopify Bundles app

1. Install the [Shopify Bundles app](https://apps.shopify.com/shopify-bundles) in your Shopify admin.

2. Make sure your store meets the [eligibility requirements](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/bundles/eligibility-and-considerations).

3. From the [**Bundles**](https://admin.shopify.com/apps/shopify-bundles/app) page, [create a new bundle](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/bundles/shopify-bundles).

### Step 2: Create the BundleBadge component

Create a new BundleBadge component to be displayed on bundle product listings.

#### File: [BundleBadge.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/cookbook/recipes/bundles/ingredients/templates/skeleton/app/components/BundleBadge.tsx)

<details>

```tsx
export function BundleBadge() {
  return (
    <div
      style={{
        position: 'absolute',
        padding: '.5rem .75rem',
        fontSize: '11px',
        backgroundColor: '#10804c',
        color: 'white',
        top: '1rem',
        right: '1rem',
      }}
    >
      BUNDLE
    </div>
  );
}

```

</details>

### Step 3: Create a new BundledVariants component

Create a new `BundledVariants` component that wraps the variants of a bundle product in a single product listing.

#### File: [BundledVariants.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/cookbook/recipes/bundles/ingredients/templates/skeleton/app/components/BundledVariants.tsx)

<details>

```tsx
import {Link} from '@remix-run/react';
import {Image} from '@shopify/hydrogen';
import type {
  ProductVariantComponent,
  Image as ShopifyImage,
} from '@shopify/hydrogen/storefront-api-types';

export function BundledVariants({
  variants,
}: {
  variants: ProductVariantComponent[];
}) {
  return (
    <div
      style={{
        display: 'flex',
        flexDirection: 'column',
        paddingTop: '1rem',
      }}
    >
      {variants
        ?.map(({productVariant: bundledVariant, quantity}) => {
          const url = `/products/${bundledVariant.product.handle}`;
          return (
            <Link
              style={{
                display: 'flex',
                flexDirection: 'row',
                marginBottom: '.5rem',
              }}
              to={url}
              key={bundledVariant.id}
            >
              <Image
                alt={bundledVariant.title}
                aspectRatio="1/1"
                height={60}
                loading="lazy"
                width={60}
                data={bundledVariant.image as ShopifyImage}
              />
              <div
                style={{
                  display: 'flex',
                  flexDirection: 'column',
                  paddingLeft: '1rem',
                }}
              >
                <small>
                  {bundledVariant.product.title}
                  {bundledVariant.title !== 'Default Title'
                    ? `- ${bundledVariant.title}`
                    : null}
                </small>
                <small>Qty: {quantity}</small>
              </div>
            </Link>
          );
        })
        .filter(Boolean)}
    </div>
  );
}

```

</details>

### Step 4: Update the product fragment to query for bundles and display BundledVariants

1. Add the `requiresComponents` field to the `Product` fragment, which is
used to identify bundled products.
2. Pass the `isBundle` flag to the `ProductImage` component.

#### File: [app/routes/products.$handle.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/templates/skeleton/app/routes/products.$handle.tsx)

<details>

```diff
index 2dc6bda2..0339d128 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/routes/products.$handle.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/routes/products.$handle.tsx
@@ -1,4 +1,4 @@
-import {redirect, type LoaderFunctionArgs} from '@shopify/remix-oxygen';
+import {type LoaderFunctionArgs} from '@shopify/remix-oxygen';
 import {useLoaderData, type MetaFunction} from '@remix-run/react';
 import {
   getSelectedProductOptions,
@@ -12,6 +12,8 @@ import {ProductPrice} from '~/components/ProductPrice';
 import {ProductImage} from '~/components/ProductImage';
 import {ProductForm} from '~/components/ProductForm';
 import {redirectIfHandleIsLocalized} from '~/lib/redirect';
+import type {ProductVariantComponent} from '@shopify/hydrogen/storefront-api-types';
+import {BundledVariants} from '~/components/BundledVariants';
 
 export const meta: MetaFunction<typeof loader> = ({data}) => {
   return [
@@ -101,9 +103,12 @@ export default function Product() {
 
   const {title, descriptionHtml} = product;
 
+  const isBundle = Boolean(product.isBundle?.requiresComponents);
+  const bundledVariants = isBundle ? product.isBundle?.components.nodes : null;
+
   return (
     <div className="product">
-      <ProductImage image={selectedVariant?.image} />
+      <ProductImage image={selectedVariant?.image} isBundle={isBundle} />
       <div className="product-main">
         <h1>{title}</h1>
         <ProductPrice
@@ -114,6 +119,7 @@ export default function Product() {
         <ProductForm
           productOptions={productOptions}
           selectedVariant={selectedVariant}
+          isBundle={isBundle}
         />
         <br />
         <br />
@@ -123,6 +129,14 @@ export default function Product() {
         <br />
         <div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{__html: descriptionHtml}} />
         <br />
+        {isBundle && (
+          <div>
+            <h4>Bundled Products</h4>
+            <BundledVariants
+              variants={bundledVariants as ProductVariantComponent[]}
+            />
+          </div>
+        )}
       </div>
       <Analytics.ProductView
         data={{
@@ -177,6 +191,28 @@ const PRODUCT_VARIANT_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
       amount
       currencyCode
     }
+    requiresComponents
+    components(first: 10) {
+      nodes {
+        productVariant {
+          id
+          title
+          product {
+            handle
+          }
+        }
+        quantity
+      }
+    }
+    groupedBy(first: 10) {
+      nodes {
+        id
+        title
+        product {
+          handle
+        }
+      }
+    }
   }
 ` as const;
 
@@ -213,6 +249,25 @@ const PRODUCT_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
     adjacentVariants (selectedOptions: $selectedOptions) {
       ...ProductVariant
     }
+    # Check if the product is a bundle
+    isBundle: selectedOrFirstAvailableVariant(ignoreUnknownOptions: true, selectedOptions: { name: "", value: ""}) {
+      ...on ProductVariant {
+        requiresComponents
+        components(first: 100) {
+           nodes {
+              productVariant {
+                ...ProductVariant
+              }
+              quantity
+           }
+        }
+        groupedBy(first: 100) {
+          nodes {
+              id
+            }
+          }
+        }
+    }
     seo {
       description
       title
```

</details>

### Step 5: Update the collections fragment to query for bundles

Like the previous step, use the `requiresComponents` field to detect if the product item is a bundle.

#### File: [app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/templates/skeleton/app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx)

```diff
index f1d7fa3e..ae341f8a 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx
@@ -4,6 +4,7 @@ import {getPaginationVariables, Analytics} from '@shopify/hydrogen';
 import {PaginatedResourceSection} from '~/components/PaginatedResourceSection';
 import {redirectIfHandleIsLocalized} from '~/lib/redirect';
 import {ProductItem} from '~/components/ProductItem';
+import {ProductItemFragment} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
 
 export const meta: MetaFunction<typeof loader> = ({data}) => {
   return [{title: `Hydrogen | ${data?.collection.title ?? ''} Collection`}];
@@ -79,7 +80,13 @@ export default function Collection() {
         connection={collection.products}
         resourcesClassName="products-grid"
       >
-        {({node: product, index}) => (
+        {({
+          node: product,
+          index,
+        }: {
+          node: ProductItemFragment;
+          index: number;
+        }) => (
           <ProductItem
             key={product.id}
             product={product}
@@ -123,10 +130,16 @@ const PRODUCT_ITEM_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
         ...MoneyProductItem
       }
     }
+    # Check if the product is a bundle
+    isBundle: selectedOrFirstAvailableVariant(ignoreUnknownOptions: true, selectedOptions: { name: "", value: ""}) {
+      ...on ProductVariant {
+        requiresComponents
+      }
+    }
   }
 ` as const;
 
-// NOTE: https://shopify.dev/docs/api/storefront/2022-04/objects/collection
+// NOTE: https://shopify.dev/docs/api/storefront/latest/objects/collection
 const COLLECTION_QUERY = `#graphql
   ${PRODUCT_ITEM_FRAGMENT}
   query Collection(
```

### Step 6: Update the cart fragment to query for bundles

Use the `requiresComponents` field to determine if a cart line item is a bundle.

#### File: [app/lib/fragments.ts](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/templates/skeleton/app/lib/fragments.ts)

<details>

```diff
index dc4426a9..13cc34e5 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/lib/fragments.ts
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/lib/fragments.ts
@@ -52,6 +52,19 @@ export const CART_QUERY_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
           name
           value
         }
+        requiresComponents
+        components(first: 10) {
+          nodes {
+            productVariant {
+              id
+              title
+              product {
+                handle
+              }
+            }
+            quantity
+          }
+        }
       }
     }
   }
@@ -102,6 +115,28 @@ export const CART_QUERY_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
           name
           value
         }
+        requiresComponents
+        components(first: 10) {
+          nodes {
+            productVariant {
+              id
+              title
+              product {
+                handle
+              }
+            }
+            quantity
+          }
+        }
+        groupedBy(first: 10) {
+          nodes {
+            id
+            title
+            product {
+              handle
+            }
+          }
+        }
       }
     }
   }
```

</details>

### Step 7: Conditionally render the BundleBadge in cart line items

If a product is a bundle, show the `BundleBadge` component in the cart line item.

#### File: [app/components/CartLineItem.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/templates/skeleton/app/components/CartLineItem.tsx)

```diff
index bd33a2cf..0790a6f2 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/components/CartLineItem.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/components/CartLineItem.tsx
@@ -6,6 +6,7 @@ import {Link} from '@remix-run/react';
 import {ProductPrice} from './ProductPrice';
 import {useAside} from './Aside';
 import type {CartApiQueryFragment} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
+import {BundleBadge} from '~/components/BundleBadge';
 
 type CartLine = OptimisticCartLine<CartApiQueryFragment>;
 
@@ -24,6 +25,7 @@ export function CartLineItem({
   const {product, title, image, selectedOptions} = merchandise;
   const lineItemUrl = useVariantUrl(product.handle, selectedOptions);
   const {close} = useAside();
+  const isBundle = Boolean(line.merchandise.requiresComponents);
 
   return (
     <li key={id} className="cart-line">
@@ -38,8 +40,9 @@ export function CartLineItem({
         />
       )}
 
-      <div>
+      <div style={{display: 'flex', flexDirection: 'column', width: '100%'}}>
         <Link
+          style={{position: 'relative'}}
           prefetch="intent"
           to={lineItemUrl}
           onClick={() => {
@@ -48,9 +51,10 @@ export function CartLineItem({
             }
           }}
         >
-          <p>
+          <p style={{maxWidth: '60%'}}>
             <strong>{product.title}</strong>
           </p>
+          {isBundle ? <BundleBadge /> : null}
         </Link>
         <ProductPrice price={line?.cost?.totalAmount} />
         <ul>
```

### Step 8: Conditionally render "Add bundle to cart" in ProductForm

If a product is a bundle, update the text of the product button.

#### File: [app/components/ProductForm.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductForm.tsx)

```diff
index e8616a61..07a984dc 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductForm.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductForm.tsx
@@ -11,9 +11,11 @@ import type {ProductFragment} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
 export function ProductForm({
   productOptions,
   selectedVariant,
+  isBundle,
 }: {
   productOptions: MappedProductOptions[];
   selectedVariant: ProductFragment['selectedOrFirstAvailableVariant'];
+  isBundle: boolean;
 }) {
   const navigate = useNavigate();
   const {open} = useAside();
@@ -118,7 +120,11 @@ export function ProductForm({
             : []
         }
       >
-        {selectedVariant?.availableForSale ? 'Add to cart' : 'Sold out'}
+        {selectedVariant?.availableForSale
+          ? isBundle
+            ? 'Add bundle to cart'
+            : 'Add to cart'
+          : 'Sold out'}
       </AddToCartButton>
     </div>
   );
```

### Step 9: Conditionally render the BundleBadge in ProductImage

If a product is a bundle, show the `BundleBadge` component in the `ProductImage` component.

#### File: [app/components/ProductImage.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductImage.tsx)

```diff
index 5f3ac1cc..c16b947b 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductImage.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductImage.tsx
@@ -1,10 +1,13 @@
 import type {ProductVariantFragment} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
 import {Image} from '@shopify/hydrogen';
+import {BundleBadge} from './BundleBadge';
 
 export function ProductImage({
   image,
+  isBundle = false,
 }: {
   image: ProductVariantFragment['image'];
+  isBundle: boolean;
 }) {
   if (!image) {
     return <div className="product-image" />;
@@ -18,6 +21,7 @@ export function ProductImage({
         key={image.id}
         sizes="(min-width: 45em) 50vw, 100vw"
       />
+      {isBundle ? <BundleBadge /> : null}
     </div>
   );
 }
```

### Step 10: Conditionally render the BundleBadge in ProductItem

If a product is a bundle, show the `BundleBadge` component in the `ProductItem` component.

#### File: [app/components/ProductItem.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductItem.tsx)

<details>

```diff
index 62c64b50..970916bd 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductItem.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductItem.tsx
@@ -1,24 +1,19 @@
 import {Link} from '@remix-run/react';
 import {Image, Money} from '@shopify/hydrogen';
-import type {
-  ProductItemFragment,
-  CollectionItemFragment,
-  RecommendedProductFragment,
-} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
+import type {ProductItemFragment} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
 import {useVariantUrl} from '~/lib/variants';
+import {BundleBadge} from '~/components/BundleBadge';
 
 export function ProductItem({
   product,
   loading,
 }: {
-  product:
-    | CollectionItemFragment
-    | ProductItemFragment
-    | RecommendedProductFragment;
+  product: ProductItemFragment;
   loading?: 'eager' | 'lazy';
 }) {
   const variantUrl = useVariantUrl(product.handle);
-  const image = product.featuredImage;
+  const isBundle = product?.isBundle?.requiresComponents;
+
   return (
     <Link
       className="product-item"
@@ -26,19 +21,22 @@ export function ProductItem({
       prefetch="intent"
       to={variantUrl}
     >
-      {image && (
-        <Image
-          alt={image.altText || product.title}
-          aspectRatio="1/1"
-          data={image}
-          loading={loading}
-          sizes="(min-width: 45em) 400px, 100vw"
-        />
-      )}
-      <h4>{product.title}</h4>
-      <small>
-        <Money data={product.priceRange.minVariantPrice} />
-      </small>
+      <div style={{position: 'relative'}}>
+        {product.featuredImage && (
+          <Image
+            alt={product.featuredImage.altText || product.title}
+            aspectRatio="1/1"
+            data={product.featuredImage}
+            loading={loading}
+            sizes="(min-width: 45em) 400px, 100vw"
+          />
+        )}
+        <h4>{product.title}</h4>
+        <small>
+          <Money data={product.priceRange.minVariantPrice} />
+        </small>
+        {isBundle && <BundleBadge />}
+      </div>
     </Link>
   );
 }
```

</details>

### Step 11: Add a product-image class to the app stylesheet

Make sure the bundle badge is positioned relative to the product image.

#### File: [app/styles/app.css](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/bd55b241191304945704c0b9ef278e945c55d3da/templates/skeleton/app/styles/app.css)

```diff
index b9294c59..de48b6c6 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/styles/app.css
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/styles/app.css
@@ -436,6 +436,10 @@ button.reset:hover:not(:has(> *)) {
   margin-top: 0;
 }
 
+.product-image {
+  position: relative;
+}
+
 .product-image img {
   height: auto;
   width: 100%;
```

Commit message:

regen, dedicated field for next steps

cookbook/recipes/bundles/README.md, after:

# Bundles

This recipe adds special styling for product bundles on your Hydrogen
storefront. Customers will see badges and relevant cover images for bundles
when they're viewing product and collection pages.

In this recipe you'll make the following changes:

1. Set up the Shopify Bundles app in your Shopify admin and create a new
product bundle.
2. Update the GraphQL fragments to query for bundles to identify bundled
products.
3. Update the product and collection templates to display badges on product
listings, update the copy for the cart buttons, and display bundle-specific
information on product and collection pages.
4. Update the cart line item template to display the bundle badge as needed.

## Requirements

To use product bundles, you need to install a bundles app in your Shopify admin.
In this recipe, we'll use the [Shopify Bundles app](https://apps.shopify.com/shopify-bundles).

## Ingredients

_New files added to the template by this recipe._

| File | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [app/components/BundleBadge.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/cookbook/recipes/bundles/ingredients/templates/skeleton/app/components/BundleBadge.tsx) | A badge displayed on bundle product listings. |
| [app/components/BundledVariants.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/cookbook/recipes/bundles/ingredients/templates/skeleton/app/components/BundledVariants.tsx) | A component that wraps the variants of a bundle product in a single product listing. |

## Steps

### Step 1: Set up the Shopify Bundles app

1. Install the [Shopify Bundles app](https://apps.shopify.com/shopify-bundles) in your Shopify admin.

2. Make sure your store meets the [eligibility requirements](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/bundles/eligibility-and-considerations).

3. From the [**Bundles**](https://admin.shopify.com/apps/shopify-bundles/app) page, [create a new bundle](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/bundles/shopify-bundles).

### Step 2: Create the BundleBadge component

Create a new BundleBadge component to be displayed on bundle product listings.

#### File: [BundleBadge.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/cookbook/recipes/bundles/ingredients/templates/skeleton/app/components/BundleBadge.tsx)

<details>

```tsx
export function BundleBadge() {
  return (
    <div
      style={{
        position: 'absolute',
        padding: '.5rem .75rem',
        fontSize: '11px',
        backgroundColor: '#10804c',
        color: 'white',
        top: '1rem',
        right: '1rem',
      }}
    >
      BUNDLE
    </div>
  );
}

```

</details>

### Step 3: Create a new BundledVariants component

Create a new `BundledVariants` component that wraps the variants of a bundle product in a single product listing.

#### File: [BundledVariants.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/cookbook/recipes/bundles/ingredients/templates/skeleton/app/components/BundledVariants.tsx)

<details>

```tsx
import {Link} from '@remix-run/react';
import {Image} from '@shopify/hydrogen';
import type {
  ProductVariantComponent,
  Image as ShopifyImage,
} from '@shopify/hydrogen/storefront-api-types';

export function BundledVariants({
  variants,
}: {
  variants: ProductVariantComponent[];
}) {
  return (
    <div
      style={{
        display: 'flex',
        flexDirection: 'column',
        paddingTop: '1rem',
      }}
    >
      {variants
        ?.map(({productVariant: bundledVariant, quantity}) => {
          const url = `/products/${bundledVariant.product.handle}`;
          return (
            <Link
              style={{
                display: 'flex',
                flexDirection: 'row',
                marginBottom: '.5rem',
              }}
              to={url}
              key={bundledVariant.id}
            >
              <Image
                alt={bundledVariant.title}
                aspectRatio="1/1"
                height={60}
                loading="lazy"
                width={60}
                data={bundledVariant.image as ShopifyImage}
              />
              <div
                style={{
                  display: 'flex',
                  flexDirection: 'column',
                  paddingLeft: '1rem',
                }}
              >
                <small>
                  {bundledVariant.product.title}
                  {bundledVariant.title !== 'Default Title'
                    ? `- ${bundledVariant.title}`
                    : null}
                </small>
                <small>Qty: {quantity}</small>
              </div>
            </Link>
          );
        })
        .filter(Boolean)}
    </div>
  );
}

```

</details>

### Step 4: Update the product fragment to query for bundles and display BundledVariants

1. Add the `requiresComponents` field to the `Product` fragment, which is
used to identify bundled products.
2. Pass the `isBundle` flag to the `ProductImage` component.

#### File: [app/routes/products.$handle.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/templates/skeleton/app/routes/products.$handle.tsx)

<details>

```diff
index 2dc6bda2..0339d128 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/routes/products.$handle.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/routes/products.$handle.tsx
@@ -1,4 +1,4 @@
-import {redirect, type LoaderFunctionArgs} from '@shopify/remix-oxygen';
+import {type LoaderFunctionArgs} from '@shopify/remix-oxygen';
 import {useLoaderData, type MetaFunction} from '@remix-run/react';
 import {
   getSelectedProductOptions,
@@ -12,6 +12,8 @@ import {ProductPrice} from '~/components/ProductPrice';
 import {ProductImage} from '~/components/ProductImage';
 import {ProductForm} from '~/components/ProductForm';
 import {redirectIfHandleIsLocalized} from '~/lib/redirect';
+import type {ProductVariantComponent} from '@shopify/hydrogen/storefront-api-types';
+import {BundledVariants} from '~/components/BundledVariants';
 
 export const meta: MetaFunction<typeof loader> = ({data}) => {
   return [
@@ -101,9 +103,12 @@ export default function Product() {
 
   const {title, descriptionHtml} = product;
 
+  const isBundle = Boolean(product.isBundle?.requiresComponents);
+  const bundledVariants = isBundle ? product.isBundle?.components.nodes : null;
+
   return (
     <div className="product">
-      <ProductImage image={selectedVariant?.image} />
+      <ProductImage image={selectedVariant?.image} isBundle={isBundle} />
       <div className="product-main">
         <h1>{title}</h1>
         <ProductPrice
@@ -114,6 +119,7 @@ export default function Product() {
         <ProductForm
           productOptions={productOptions}
           selectedVariant={selectedVariant}
+          isBundle={isBundle}
         />
         <br />
         <br />
@@ -123,6 +129,14 @@ export default function Product() {
         <br />
         <div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{__html: descriptionHtml}} />
         <br />
+        {isBundle && (
+          <div>
+            <h4>Bundled Products</h4>
+            <BundledVariants
+              variants={bundledVariants as ProductVariantComponent[]}
+            />
+          </div>
+        )}
       </div>
       <Analytics.ProductView
         data={{
@@ -177,6 +191,28 @@ const PRODUCT_VARIANT_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
       amount
       currencyCode
     }
+    requiresComponents
+    components(first: 10) {
+      nodes {
+        productVariant {
+          id
+          title
+          product {
+            handle
+          }
+        }
+        quantity
+      }
+    }
+    groupedBy(first: 10) {
+      nodes {
+        id
+        title
+        product {
+          handle
+        }
+      }
+    }
   }
 ` as const;
 
@@ -213,6 +249,25 @@ const PRODUCT_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
     adjacentVariants (selectedOptions: $selectedOptions) {
       ...ProductVariant
     }
+    # Check if the product is a bundle
+    isBundle: selectedOrFirstAvailableVariant(ignoreUnknownOptions: true, selectedOptions: { name: "", value: ""}) {
+      ...on ProductVariant {
+        requiresComponents
+        components(first: 100) {
+           nodes {
+              productVariant {
+                ...ProductVariant
+              }
+              quantity
+           }
+        }
+        groupedBy(first: 100) {
+          nodes {
+              id
+            }
+          }
+        }
+    }
     seo {
       description
       title
```

</details>

### Step 5: Update the collections fragment to query for bundles

Like the previous step, use the `requiresComponents` field to detect if the product item is a bundle.

#### File: [app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/templates/skeleton/app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx)

```diff
index f1d7fa3e..ae341f8a 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx
@@ -4,6 +4,7 @@ import {getPaginationVariables, Analytics} from '@shopify/hydrogen';
 import {PaginatedResourceSection} from '~/components/PaginatedResourceSection';
 import {redirectIfHandleIsLocalized} from '~/lib/redirect';
 import {ProductItem} from '~/components/ProductItem';
+import {ProductItemFragment} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
 
 export const meta: MetaFunction<typeof loader> = ({data}) => {
   return [{title: `Hydrogen | ${data?.collection.title ?? ''} Collection`}];
@@ -79,7 +80,13 @@ export default function Collection() {
         connection={collection.products}
         resourcesClassName="products-grid"
       >
-        {({node: product, index}) => (
+        {({
+          node: product,
+          index,
+        }: {
+          node: ProductItemFragment;
+          index: number;
+        }) => (
           <ProductItem
             key={product.id}
             product={product}
@@ -123,10 +130,16 @@ const PRODUCT_ITEM_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
         ...MoneyProductItem
       }
     }
+    # Check if the product is a bundle
+    isBundle: selectedOrFirstAvailableVariant(ignoreUnknownOptions: true, selectedOptions: { name: "", value: ""}) {
+      ...on ProductVariant {
+        requiresComponents
+      }
+    }
   }
 ` as const;
 
-// NOTE: https://shopify.dev/docs/api/storefront/2022-04/objects/collection
+// NOTE: https://shopify.dev/docs/api/storefront/latest/objects/collection
 const COLLECTION_QUERY = `#graphql
   ${PRODUCT_ITEM_FRAGMENT}
   query Collection(
```

### Step 6: Update the cart fragment to query for bundles

Use the `requiresComponents` field to determine if a cart line item is a bundle.

#### File: [app/lib/fragments.ts](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/templates/skeleton/app/lib/fragments.ts)

<details>

```diff
index dc4426a9..13cc34e5 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/lib/fragments.ts
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/lib/fragments.ts
@@ -52,6 +52,19 @@ export const CART_QUERY_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
           name
           value
         }
+        requiresComponents
+        components(first: 10) {
+          nodes {
+            productVariant {
+              id
+              title
+              product {
+                handle
+              }
+            }
+            quantity
+          }
+        }
       }
     }
   }
@@ -102,6 +115,28 @@ export const CART_QUERY_FRAGMENT = `#graphql
           name
           value
         }
+        requiresComponents
+        components(first: 10) {
+          nodes {
+            productVariant {
+              id
+              title
+              product {
+                handle
+              }
+            }
+            quantity
+          }
+        }
+        groupedBy(first: 10) {
+          nodes {
+            id
+            title
+            product {
+              handle
+            }
+          }
+        }
       }
     }
   }
```

</details>

### Step 7: Conditionally render the BundleBadge in cart line items

If a product is a bundle, show the `BundleBadge` component in the cart line item.

#### File: [app/components/CartLineItem.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/templates/skeleton/app/components/CartLineItem.tsx)

```diff
index bd33a2cf..0790a6f2 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/components/CartLineItem.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/components/CartLineItem.tsx
@@ -6,6 +6,7 @@ import {Link} from '@remix-run/react';
 import {ProductPrice} from './ProductPrice';
 import {useAside} from './Aside';
 import type {CartApiQueryFragment} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
+import {BundleBadge} from '~/components/BundleBadge';
 
 type CartLine = OptimisticCartLine<CartApiQueryFragment>;
 
@@ -24,6 +25,7 @@ export function CartLineItem({
   const {product, title, image, selectedOptions} = merchandise;
   const lineItemUrl = useVariantUrl(product.handle, selectedOptions);
   const {close} = useAside();
+  const isBundle = Boolean(line.merchandise.requiresComponents);
 
   return (
     <li key={id} className="cart-line">
@@ -38,8 +40,9 @@ export function CartLineItem({
         />
       )}
 
-      <div>
+      <div style={{display: 'flex', flexDirection: 'column', width: '100%'}}>
         <Link
+          style={{position: 'relative'}}
           prefetch="intent"
           to={lineItemUrl}
           onClick={() => {
@@ -48,9 +51,10 @@ export function CartLineItem({
             }
           }}
         >
-          <p>
+          <p style={{maxWidth: '60%'}}>
             <strong>{product.title}</strong>
           </p>
+          {isBundle ? <BundleBadge /> : null}
         </Link>
         <ProductPrice price={line?.cost?.totalAmount} />
         <ul>
```

### Step 8: Conditionally render "Add bundle to cart" in ProductForm

If a product is a bundle, update the text of the product button.

#### File: [app/components/ProductForm.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductForm.tsx)

```diff
index e8616a61..07a984dc 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductForm.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductForm.tsx
@@ -11,9 +11,11 @@ import type {ProductFragment} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
 export function ProductForm({
   productOptions,
   selectedVariant,
+  isBundle,
 }: {
   productOptions: MappedProductOptions[];
   selectedVariant: ProductFragment['selectedOrFirstAvailableVariant'];
+  isBundle: boolean;
 }) {
   const navigate = useNavigate();
   const {open} = useAside();
@@ -118,7 +120,11 @@ export function ProductForm({
             : []
         }
       >
-        {selectedVariant?.availableForSale ? 'Add to cart' : 'Sold out'}
+        {selectedVariant?.availableForSale
+          ? isBundle
+            ? 'Add bundle to cart'
+            : 'Add to cart'
+          : 'Sold out'}
       </AddToCartButton>
     </div>
   );
```

### Step 9: Conditionally render the BundleBadge in ProductImage

If a product is a bundle, show the `BundleBadge` component in the `ProductImage` component.

#### File: [app/components/ProductImage.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductImage.tsx)

```diff
index 5f3ac1cc..c16b947b 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductImage.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductImage.tsx
@@ -1,10 +1,13 @@
 import type {ProductVariantFragment} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
 import {Image} from '@shopify/hydrogen';
+import {BundleBadge} from './BundleBadge';
 
 export function ProductImage({
   image,
+  isBundle = false,
 }: {
   image: ProductVariantFragment['image'];
+  isBundle: boolean;
 }) {
   if (!image) {
     return <div className="product-image" />;
@@ -18,6 +21,7 @@ export function ProductImage({
         key={image.id}
         sizes="(min-width: 45em) 50vw, 100vw"
       />
+      {isBundle ? <BundleBadge /> : null}
     </div>
   );
 }
```

### Step 10: Conditionally render the BundleBadge in ProductItem

If a product is a bundle, show the `BundleBadge` component in the `ProductItem` component.

#### File: [app/components/ProductItem.tsx](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductItem.tsx)

<details>

```diff
index 62c64b50..970916bd 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductItem.tsx
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/components/ProductItem.tsx
@@ -1,24 +1,19 @@
 import {Link} from '@remix-run/react';
 import {Image, Money} from '@shopify/hydrogen';
-import type {
-  ProductItemFragment,
-  CollectionItemFragment,
-  RecommendedProductFragment,
-} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
+import type {ProductItemFragment} from 'storefrontapi.generated';
 import {useVariantUrl} from '~/lib/variants';
+import {BundleBadge} from '~/components/BundleBadge';
 
 export function ProductItem({
   product,
   loading,
 }: {
-  product:
-    | CollectionItemFragment
-    | ProductItemFragment
-    | RecommendedProductFragment;
+  product: ProductItemFragment;
   loading?: 'eager' | 'lazy';
 }) {
   const variantUrl = useVariantUrl(product.handle);
-  const image = product.featuredImage;
+  const isBundle = product?.isBundle?.requiresComponents;
+
   return (
     <Link
       className="product-item"
@@ -26,19 +21,22 @@ export function ProductItem({
       prefetch="intent"
       to={variantUrl}
     >
-      {image && (
-        <Image
-          alt={image.altText || product.title}
-          aspectRatio="1/1"
-          data={image}
-          loading={loading}
-          sizes="(min-width: 45em) 400px, 100vw"
-        />
-      )}
-      <h4>{product.title}</h4>
-      <small>
-        <Money data={product.priceRange.minVariantPrice} />
-      </small>
+      <div style={{position: 'relative'}}>
+        {product.featuredImage && (
+          <Image
+            alt={product.featuredImage.altText || product.title}
+            aspectRatio="1/1"
+            data={product.featuredImage}
+            loading={loading}
+            sizes="(min-width: 45em) 400px, 100vw"
+          />
+        )}
+        <h4>{product.title}</h4>
+        <small>
+          <Money data={product.priceRange.minVariantPrice} />
+        </small>
+        {isBundle && <BundleBadge />}
+      </div>
     </Link>
   );
 }
```

</details>

### Step 11: Add a product-image class to the app stylesheet

Make sure the bundle badge is positioned relative to the product image.

#### File: [app/styles/app.css](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/blob/90f894418e0b37dc31b5f428fad08aaa98163cde/templates/skeleton/app/styles/app.css)

```diff
index b9294c59..de48b6c6 100644
--- a/templates/skeleton/app/styles/app.css
+++ b/templates/skeleton/app/styles/app.css
@@ -436,6 +436,10 @@ button.reset:hover:not(:has(> *)) {
   margin-top: 0;
 }
 
+.product-image {
+  position: relative;
+}
+
 .product-image img {
   height: auto;
   width: 100%;
```

## Next Steps

- Test your implementation by going to your store and adding a bundle to the cart. Make sure that the bundle's badge appears on the product page and in the cart.
- (Optional) [Place a test order](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/checkout-settings/test-orders) to see how orders for bundles appear in your Shopify admin.
