examples/b2b/README.md, before:

# Hydrogen example: B2B

This is an example implementation of a B2B storefront using Hydrogen. It includes the following high level changes.

1. Retrieving company location data from a logged in customer using the [Customer Account API](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/customer/2024-07/queries/customer)
2. Displaying a list of company locations and setting a `companyLocationId` in session
3. Using a storefront `customerAccessToken` and `companyLocationId` to update cart and get B2B specific rules and pricing such as [volume pricing and quantity rules](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/b2b/catalogs/quantity-pricing)
4. Using a storefront `customerAccessToken` and `companyLocationId` to [contextualize queries](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/storefront#directives) using the `buyer` argument on the product display page

> [!NOTE]
> Only queries on the product display page, `app/routes/products.$handle.tsx`, were contextualized in this example. For a production storefront, all queries for product data should be contextualized.

## Install

Setup a new project with this example:

```bash
npm create @shopify/hydrogen@latest -- --template b2b
```

## Requirements

- Your store is on a [Shopify Plus plan](https://help.shopify.com/manual/intro-to-shopify/pricing-plans/plans-features/shopify-plus-plan).
- Your store is using [new customer accounts](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/customers/customer-accounts/new-customer-accounts).
- You have access to a customer which has permission to order for a [B2B company](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/b2b).

## Key files

This folder contains the minimal set of files needed to showcase the implementation.
Not all queries where contextualized for B2B. `app/routes/products.$handle.tsx` provides
reference on how to contextualize storefront queries. Files that aren’t included by default
with Hydrogen and that you’ll need to create are labeled with 🆕.

| File                                                                                  | Description                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`app/routes/b2blocations.tsx`](app/routes/b2blocations.tsx)                          | Includes a customer query to get B2B data. Set `companyLocationId` in session if there is only one location available to buy for the customer     |
| [`app/components/B2BLocationProvider.tsx`](app/components/B2BLocationProvider.tsx)    | Provides context on if the current logged in customer is a B2B customer and keeping track of the location modal open status.                      |
| 🆕 [`app/graphql/CustomerLocationsQuery.ts`](app/graphql/CustomerLocationsQuery.ts)   | Customer query to fetch company locations                                                                                                         |
| 🆕 [`app/components/B2BLocationSelector.tsx`](app/components/B2BLocationSelector.tsx) | Component to choose a Company location to buy for. Rendered if there is no `companyLocationId` set in session                                     |
| [`app/routes/products.$handle.tsx`](app/routes/products.$handle.tsx)                  | Added buyer context to the product and product varient queries. Includes logic and components to display quantity rules and quantity price breaks |
| 🆕 [`app/components/PriceBreaks.tsx`](app/components/PriceBreaks.tsx)                 | Component rendered on the product page to highlight quantity price breaks                                                                         |
| 🆕 [`app/components/QuantityRules.tsx`](app/components/QuantityRules.tsx)             | Component rendered on the product page to highlight quantity rules                                                                                |

Commit message:

feat: convert examples from diff-based to standalone applications
Complete conversion of 9 examples to standalone React Router 7.8.x applications.
These examples now include all necessary files and configurations to run
independently without relying on the diff system.

Converted examples:
- b2b: B2B commerce with company locations and price breaks
- custom-cart-method: Custom cart implementation example
- gtm: Google Tag Manager integration
- infinite-scroll: Infinite scroll collection pages
- legacy-customer-account-flow: Legacy customer authentication
- metaobjects: Metaobject sections and store profiles
- multipass: Multipass authentication integration
- partytown: Partytown script optimization
- third-party-queries-caching: Third-party API caching

Each example now includes:
- Complete application code (components, routes, lib)
- Configuration files (vite, tsconfig, eslint, graphqlrc)
- Package.json with all dependencies
- Entry files and server configuration

examples/b2b/README.md, after:

# Hydrogen example: B2B

This is an example implementation of a B2B storefront using Hydrogen. It includes the following high level changes.

1. Retrieving company location data from a logged in customer using the [Customer Account API](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/customer/2024-07/queries/customer)
2. Displaying a list of company locations and setting a `companyLocationId` in session
3. Using a storefront `customerAccessToken` and `companyLocationId` to update cart and get B2B specific rules and pricing such as [volume pricing and quantity rules](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/b2b/catalogs/quantity-pricing)
4. Using a storefront `customerAccessToken` and `companyLocationId` to [contextualize queries](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/storefront#directives) using the `buyer` argument on the product display page

> [!NOTE]
> Only queries on the product display page, `app/routes/products.$handle.tsx`, were contextualized in this example. For a production storefront, all queries for product data should be contextualized.

## Install

Setup a new project with this example:

```bash
npm create @shopify/hydrogen@latest -- --template b2b
```

## Requirements

- Your store is on a [Shopify Plus plan](https://help.shopify.com/manual/intro-to-shopify/pricing-plans/plans-features/shopify-plus-plan).
- Your store is using [new customer accounts](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/customers/customer-accounts/new-customer-accounts).
- You have access to a customer which has permission to order for a [B2B company](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/b2b).

## Key files

This example includes B2B-specific functionality on top of the standard Hydrogen skeleton.
Files that aren't included by default with Hydrogen and that you'll need to create are labeled with 🆕.

| File                                                                                  | Description                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🆕 [`app/routes/b2blocations.tsx`](app/routes/b2blocations.tsx)                       | Includes a customer query to get B2B data. Set `companyLocationId` in session if there is only one location available to buy for the customer     |
| 🆕 [`app/components/B2BLocationProvider.tsx`](app/components/B2BLocationProvider.tsx) | Provides context on if the current logged in customer is a B2B customer and keeping track of the location modal open status.                      |
| 🆕 [`app/graphql/CustomerLocationsQuery.ts`](app/graphql/CustomerLocationsQuery.ts)   | Customer query to fetch company locations                                                                                                         |
| 🆕 [`app/components/B2BLocationSelector.tsx`](app/components/B2BLocationSelector.tsx) | Component to choose a Company location to buy for. Rendered if there is no `companyLocationId` set in session                                     |
| [`app/routes/products.$handle.tsx`](app/routes/products.$handle.tsx)                  | Modified to add buyer context to the product and product variant queries. Includes logic and components to display quantity rules and quantity price breaks |
| 🆕 [`app/components/PriceBreaks.tsx`](app/components/PriceBreaks.tsx)                 | Component rendered on the product page to highlight quantity price breaks                                                                         |
| 🆕 [`app/components/QuantityRules.tsx`](app/components/QuantityRules.tsx)             | Component rendered on the product page to highlight quantity rules                                                                                |
