examples/metaobjects/README.md, before:

# Hydrogen example: Metaobjects Content

This folder contains an example implementation of using [metaobjects](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/custom-data/metaobjects)
as a thin Content Management System (CMS) for Hydrogen.

More specifically, this example focuses on how to render and manage custom content
at a route and section level.

## Install

Setup a new project with this example:

```bash
npm create @shopify/hydrogen@latest -- --template metaobjects
```

## Requirements

- Basic understanding of metaobjects. Creating metaobject [definitions](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/custom-data/metaobjects/building-a-metaobject),
  creating metaobject [entries](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/custom-data/metaobjects/creating-entries).
  For more info, please refer to this [tutorial](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/custom-data/metaobjects/using-metaobjects)
- Must use the "mock.shop" store because it has the required definitions and entries
  to make this example work.

> [!NOTE]
> (Optional) If you prefer to use your own store instead, please follow the [instructions](./docs/METAOBJECTS.md)
> to configure the same content architecture.

## Key files

This folder contains the minimal set of files needed to showcase the implementation.
Files that aren’t included by default with Hydrogen and that you’ll need to
create are labeled with 🆕.

| File                                                                                      | Description                                                                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/RouteContent.tsx`](app/sections/RouteContent.tsx)                       | A component that renders a route's content sections and an Edit button                                                                   |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/Sections.tsx`](app/sections/Sections.tsx)                               | A component that renders an array of content sections                                                                                    |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/SectionHero.tsx`](app/sections/SectionHero.tsx)                         | A component that renders the SectionHero definition and entries                                                                          |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/SectionFeaturedProducts.tsx`](app/sections/SectionFeaturedProducts.tsx) | A component that renders the SectionFeaturedProducts definition and entries                                                              |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/SectionStoreProfile.tsx`](app/sections/SectionStoreProfile.tsx)         | A component that renders the SectionStoreProfile definition and entries                                                                  |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/SectionStores.tsx`](app/sections/SectionStores.tsx)                     | A component that renders the SectionStores definition and entries                                                                        |
| 🆕 [`app/components/EditRoute.tsx`](app/components/EditRoute.tsx)                         | A component that overlays an Edit Route button in routes with metaobjects for easy access to the metaobject entry in the admin dashboard |
| 🆕 [`app/utils/parseSection.ts`](app/utils/parseSection.ts)                               | A utility that parses and cleans up SFAPI metaobject responses for easier consumption                                                    |
| 🆕 [`app/routes/stores._index.tsx`](app/routes/stores._index.tsx)                         | A route that displays a collection of custom store entries                                                                               |
| 🆕 [`app/routes/stores.$name.tsx`](app/routes/stores.$name.tsx)                           | A dynamic route that displays custom store metaobject profiles                                                                           |
| [`app/routes/_index.tsx`](app/routes/_index.tsx)                                          | Modified home route to display metaobjects route content / sections                                                                      |

## Dependencies

| Module                                                        | Description                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🆕 [`slate`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/slate)             | A customizable framework for building rich text editors |
| 🆕 [`slate-react`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/slate-react) | Slate react components                                  |

## Instructions

### 1. Link the mock.shop store or test shop with metaobjects

This example uses `mock.shop` store by default.

> [!NOTE]
> (Optional) If you prefer to use your own store instead, please follow the [instructions](./docs/METAOBJECTS.md)
> to configure the same content architecture.

### 2. Copy over the 🆕 files

- utils/
- sections/
- components/
- routes/

### 3. Return the `PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STORE_DOMAIN` from the root layout

To enable the Edit Route button return the env variable as `publicStoreSubdomain`
like so

```ts
import {data, type LoaderFunctionArgs} from 'react-router';

export async function loader({context}: LoaderFunctionArgs) {
  // other code ...
  const publicStoreDomain = context.env.PUBLIC_STORE_DOMAIN;

  return data(
    {
      // other code ...
      publicStoreSubdomain: context.env.PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STORE_DOMAIN,
    },
    {headers},
  );
}
```

### 4. Modify the homepage route

Import the `RouteContent` component and query

```ts
import {ROUTE_CONTENT_QUERY, RouteContent} from '~/sections/RouteContent';
```

Adjust the loader to query for the route metaobject content

```ts
export async function loader({context}: LoaderFunctionArgs) {
  const {storefront} = context;

  const {route} = await storefront.query(ROUTE_CONTENT_QUERY, {
    variables: {handle: 'route-home'},
    cache: storefront.CacheNone(),
  });

  return {route};
}
```

Render the route's content sections with RouteContent

```ts
export default function Homepage() {
  const {route} = useLoaderData<typeof loader>();

  return (
    <div className="home">
      <RouteContent route={route} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> You can repeat this same process in any other route that should be capable of rendering
> route content entries.

[View the complete component file](app/routes/_index.tsx) to see these updates in context.

Commit message:

feat: convert examples from diff-based to standalone applications
Complete conversion of 9 examples to standalone React Router 7.8.x applications.
These examples now include all necessary files and configurations to run
independently without relying on the diff system.

Converted examples:
- b2b: B2B commerce with company locations and price breaks
- custom-cart-method: Custom cart implementation example
- gtm: Google Tag Manager integration
- infinite-scroll: Infinite scroll collection pages
- legacy-customer-account-flow: Legacy customer authentication
- metaobjects: Metaobject sections and store profiles
- multipass: Multipass authentication integration
- partytown: Partytown script optimization
- third-party-queries-caching: Third-party API caching

Each example now includes:
- Complete application code (components, routes, lib)
- Configuration files (vite, tsconfig, eslint, graphqlrc)
- Package.json with all dependencies
- Entry files and server configuration

examples/metaobjects/README.md, after:

# Hydrogen example: Metaobjects Content

This folder contains an example implementation of using [metaobjects](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/custom-data/metaobjects)
as a thin Content Management System (CMS) for Hydrogen.

More specifically, this example focuses on how to render and manage custom content
at a route and section level.

## Install

Setup a new project with this example:

```bash
npm create @shopify/hydrogen@latest -- --template metaobjects
```

## Requirements

- Basic understanding of metaobjects. Creating metaobject [definitions](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/custom-data/metaobjects/building-a-metaobject),
  creating metaobject [entries](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/custom-data/metaobjects/creating-entries).
  For more info, please refer to this [tutorial](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/custom-data/metaobjects/using-metaobjects)
- Must use the "mock.shop" store because it has the required definitions and entries
  to make this example work.

> [!NOTE]
> (Optional) If you prefer to use your own store instead, please follow the [instructions](./docs/METAOBJECTS.md)
> to configure the same content architecture.

## Key files

This example demonstrates how to use metaobjects as a CMS for Hydrogen.
Files that aren't included by default with Hydrogen and that you'll need to
create are labeled with 🆕.

| File                                                                                      | Description                                                                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/RouteContent.tsx`](app/sections/RouteContent.tsx)                       | A component that renders a route's content sections and an Edit button                                                                   |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/Sections.tsx`](app/sections/Sections.tsx)                               | A component that renders an array of content sections                                                                                    |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/SectionHero.tsx`](app/sections/SectionHero.tsx)                         | A component that renders the SectionHero definition and entries                                                                          |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/SectionFeaturedProducts.tsx`](app/sections/SectionFeaturedProducts.tsx) | A component that renders the SectionFeaturedProducts definition and entries                                                              |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/SectionStoreProfile.tsx`](app/sections/SectionStoreProfile.tsx)         | A component that renders the SectionStoreProfile definition and entries                                                                  |
| 🆕 [`app/sections/SectionStores.tsx`](app/sections/SectionStores.tsx)                     | A component that renders the SectionStores definition and entries                                                                        |
| 🆕 [`app/components/EditRoute.tsx`](app/components/EditRoute.tsx)                         | A component that overlays an Edit Route button in routes with metaobjects for easy access to the metaobject entry in the admin dashboard |
| 🆕 [`app/utils/parseSection.ts`](app/utils/parseSection.ts)                               | A utility that parses and cleans up SFAPI metaobject responses for easier consumption                                                    |
| 🆕 [`app/routes/stores._index.tsx`](app/routes/stores._index.tsx)                         | A route that displays a collection of custom store entries                                                                               |
| 🆕 [`app/routes/stores.$name.tsx`](app/routes/stores.$name.tsx)                           | A dynamic route that displays custom store metaobject profiles                                                                           |
| [`app/routes/_index.tsx`](app/routes/_index.tsx)                                          | Modified home route to display metaobjects route content / sections                                                                      |

## Dependencies

| Module                                                        | Description                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🆕 [`slate`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/slate)             | A customizable framework for building rich text editors |
| 🆕 [`slate-react`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/slate-react) | Slate react components                                  |

## Instructions

### 1. Link the mock.shop store or test shop with metaobjects

This example uses `mock.shop` store by default.

> [!NOTE]
> (Optional) If you prefer to use your own store instead, please follow the [instructions](./docs/METAOBJECTS.md)
> to configure the same content architecture.

### 2. Copy over the 🆕 files

- utils/
- sections/
- components/
- routes/

### 3. Return the `PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STORE_DOMAIN` from the root layout

To enable the Edit Route button return the env variable as `publicStoreSubdomain`
like so

```ts
import {data, type LoaderFunctionArgs} from 'react-router';

export async function loader({context}: LoaderFunctionArgs) {
  // other code ...
  const publicStoreDomain = context.env.PUBLIC_STORE_DOMAIN;

  return data(
    {
      // other code ...
      publicStoreSubdomain: context.env.PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STORE_DOMAIN,
    },
    {headers},
  );
}
```

### 4. Modify the homepage route

Import the `RouteContent` component and query

```ts
import {ROUTE_CONTENT_QUERY, RouteContent} from '~/sections/RouteContent';
```

Adjust the loader to query for the route metaobject content

```ts
export async function loader({context}: LoaderFunctionArgs) {
  const {storefront} = context;

  const {route} = await storefront.query(ROUTE_CONTENT_QUERY, {
    variables: {handle: 'route-home'},
    cache: storefront.CacheNone(),
  });

  return {route};
}
```

Render the route's content sections with RouteContent

```ts
export default function Homepage() {
  const {route} = useLoaderData<typeof loader>();

  return (
    <div className="home">
      <RouteContent route={route} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> You can repeat this same process in any other route that should be capable of rendering
> route content entries.

[View the complete component file](app/routes/_index.tsx) to see these updates in context.
