examples/custom-cart-method/README.md, before:

# Hydrogen example: Custom Card Edit

This is an example of implementation of how to edit product option in cart. It does this by creating an [custom method](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/hydrogen/2023-10/utilities/createcarthandler#example-custom-methods) named `updateLineByOptions` for cart.

This method takes a product Id, currently selected options, and query for the `merchandiseId` needed to make an cart line item update.

It also showcase an end-to-end implementation of [custom method](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/hydrogen/2023-10/utilities/createcarthandler#example-custom-methods) including the additional handler for `CustomUpdateLineByOptions` action (all custom method action should be prefix with `Custom`) in cart route, and the UI that trigger the handler.

Note that this is an isolated example, for a better edit in cart user experience we recommend implementing an optimistic cart along side of this example.

## Install

Setup a new project with this example:

```bash
npm create @shopify/hydrogen@latest -- --template custom-cart-method
```

## Requirements

- Basic understanding of how to [build a cart with Hydrogen](https://shopify.dev/docs/custom-storefronts/hydrogen/building/cart)

## Key files

This folder contains the minimal set of files needed to showcase the implementation.
Files that aren’t included by default with Hydrogen and that you’ll need to
create are labeled with 🆕.

| File                                                 | Description                                                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| [`server.ts`](server.ts)                             | Oxygen server worker. `context.cart` is created here and where the custom method is located    | \   |
| [`app/components/Cart.tsx`](app/components/Cart.tsx) | Cart component that renders the side cart                                                      |
| [`app/routes/cart.ts`](app/routes/cart.tsx)          | Cart route that handle cart action such as add or remove line item using `context.cart` object |

Commit message:

feat: convert examples from diff-based to standalone applications
Complete conversion of 9 examples to standalone React Router 7.8.x applications.
These examples now include all necessary files and configurations to run
independently without relying on the diff system.

Converted examples:
- b2b: B2B commerce with company locations and price breaks
- custom-cart-method: Custom cart implementation example
- gtm: Google Tag Manager integration
- infinite-scroll: Infinite scroll collection pages
- legacy-customer-account-flow: Legacy customer authentication
- metaobjects: Metaobject sections and store profiles
- multipass: Multipass authentication integration
- partytown: Partytown script optimization
- third-party-queries-caching: Third-party API caching

Each example now includes:
- Complete application code (components, routes, lib)
- Configuration files (vite, tsconfig, eslint, graphqlrc)
- Package.json with all dependencies
- Entry files and server configuration

examples/custom-cart-method/README.md, after:

# Hydrogen example: Custom Cart Method

This is an example of implementation of how to edit product option in cart. It does this by creating an [custom method](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/hydrogen/2023-10/utilities/createcarthandler#example-custom-methods) named `updateLineByOptions` for cart.

This method takes a product Id, currently selected options, and query for the `merchandiseId` needed to make an cart line item update.

It also showcase an end-to-end implementation of [custom method](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/hydrogen/2023-10/utilities/createcarthandler#example-custom-methods) including the additional handler for `CustomUpdateLineByOptions` action (all custom method action should be prefix with `Custom`) in cart route, and the UI that trigger the handler.

Note that this is an isolated example, for a better edit in cart user experience we recommend implementing an optimistic cart along side of this example.

## Install

Setup a new project with this example:

```bash
npm create @shopify/hydrogen@latest -- --template custom-cart-method
```

## Requirements

- Basic understanding of how to [build a cart with Hydrogen](https://shopify.dev/docs/custom-storefronts/hydrogen/building/cart)

## Key files

This example modifies the standard cart implementation to add custom cart methods.
All files listed are modifications of existing Hydrogen skeleton files.

| File                                                  | Description                                                                                     |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`server.ts`](server.ts)                             | Modified Oxygen server worker where the custom cart method `updateLineByOptions` is added      |
| [`app/components/Cart.tsx`](app/components/Cart.tsx) | Modified cart component to include inline product option editing UI                            |
| [`app/routes/cart.tsx`](app/routes/cart.tsx)         | Modified cart route to handle the new `CustomUpdateLineByOptions` action                       |
