examples/multipass/README.md, before:

# Hydrogen example: Multipass

This folder contains an example implementation of [Multipass](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/multipass) for Hydrogen. It shows how to persist
the user session from a Hydrogen storefront through to checkout.

## Requirements

- Multipass is available on [Shopify Plus](https://www.shopify.com/plus) plans.
- A Shopify Multipass secret token. Go to [**Settings > Customer accounts**](https://www.shopify.com/admin/settings/customer_accounts) to create one. Ensure you have the `Classic customer account` options selected to use Multipass

## Install

Setup a new project with this example:

```bash
npm create @shopify/hydrogen@latest -- --template multipass
```

## Key files

This folder contains the minimal set of files needed to showcase the implementation.
Files that aren’t included by default with Hydrogen and that you’ll need to
create are labeled with 🆕.

| File                                                                                          | Description                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🆕 [`app/components/MultipassCheckoutButton.tsx`](app/components/MultipassCheckoutButton.tsx) | Checkout button component that passes the customer session to checkout.                       |
| 🆕 [`app/lib/multipass/multipass.ts`](app/lib/multipass/multipass.ts)                         | Utility function that handles getting a multipass URL and token.                              |
| 🆕 [`app/lib/multipass/multipassify.server.ts`](app/lib/multipass/multipassify.server.ts)     | Utility that handles creating and parse multipass tokens.                                     |
| 🆕 [`app/lib/multipass/types.ts`](app/lib/multipass/types.ts)                                 | Types for multipass utilities.                                                                |
| 🆕 [`app/routes/account_.login.multipass.tsx`](app/routes/account_.login.multipass.tsx)       | API route that returns generated multipass tokens.                                            |
| [`app/components/Cart.tsx`](app/components/Cart.tsx)                                          | Hydrogen cart component, which gets updated to add the `<MultipassCheckoutButton>` component. |

## Dependencies

| Module                                                                  | Description                             |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| 🆕 [`snakecase-keys`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/snakecase-keys)     | Convert an object's keys to snake case  |
| 🆕 [`crypto-js`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/crypto-js)               | JavaScript library of crypto standards. |
| 🆕 [`@types/crypto-js`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/crypto-js) | crypto-js TypeScript types              |

## Instructions

### 1. Install required dependencies

```bash
# JavaScript
npm i @snakecase-keys crypto-js

# TypeScript
npm i @snakecase-keys crypto-js
npm i --save-dev @types/crypto-js
```

### 2. Copy over the new files

- In your Hydrogen app, create the new files from the file list above, copying in the code as you go.
- If you already have a `.env` file, copy over these key-value pairs:
  - `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STORE_MULTIPASS_SECRET`
  - `SHOPIFY_CHECKOUT_DOMAIN`

### 3. Edit the Cart component file

Import `MultipassCheckoutButton` and update the `CartCheckoutActions()` function. Wrap the standard `<Button>` component with the `<MultiPassCheckoutButton>` component:

```tsx
// app/components/Cart.tsx

import {MultipassCheckoutButton} from '~/components';

// ...

function CartCheckoutActions({checkoutUrl}: {checkoutUrl: string}) {
  if (!checkoutUrl) return null;

  return (
    <div>
      <MultipassCheckoutButton checkoutUrl={checkoutUrl}>
        <Button>Continue to Checkout</Button>
      </MultipassCheckoutButton>
    </div>
  );
}

// ...
```

[View the complete component file](app/components/Cart.tsx) to see these updates in context.

Commit message:

feat: convert examples from diff-based to standalone applications
Complete conversion of 9 examples to standalone React Router 7.8.x applications.
These examples now include all necessary files and configurations to run
independently without relying on the diff system.

Converted examples:
- b2b: B2B commerce with company locations and price breaks
- custom-cart-method: Custom cart implementation example
- gtm: Google Tag Manager integration
- infinite-scroll: Infinite scroll collection pages
- legacy-customer-account-flow: Legacy customer authentication
- metaobjects: Metaobject sections and store profiles
- multipass: Multipass authentication integration
- partytown: Partytown script optimization
- third-party-queries-caching: Third-party API caching

Each example now includes:
- Complete application code (components, routes, lib)
- Configuration files (vite, tsconfig, eslint, graphqlrc)
- Package.json with all dependencies
- Entry files and server configuration

examples/multipass/README.md, after:

# Hydrogen example: Multipass

This folder contains an example implementation of [Multipass](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/multipass) for Hydrogen. It shows how to persist
the user session from a Hydrogen storefront through to checkout.

## Requirements

- Multipass is available on [Shopify Plus](https://www.shopify.com/plus) plans.
- A Shopify Multipass secret token. Go to [**Settings > Customer accounts**](https://www.shopify.com/admin/settings/customer_accounts) to create one. Ensure you have the `Classic customer account` options selected to use Multipass

## Install

Setup a new project with this example:

```bash
npm create @shopify/hydrogen@latest -- --template multipass
```

## Key files

This example shows how to implement Multipass authentication for Hydrogen.
Files that aren't included by default with Hydrogen and that you'll need to
create are labeled with 🆕.

| File                                                                                          | Description                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🆕 [`app/components/MultipassCheckoutButton.tsx`](app/components/MultipassCheckoutButton.tsx) | Checkout button component that passes the customer session to checkout.                       |
| 🆕 [`app/lib/multipass/multipass.ts`](app/lib/multipass/multipass.ts)                         | Utility function that handles getting a multipass URL and token.                              |
| 🆕 [`app/lib/multipass/multipassify.server.ts`](app/lib/multipass/multipassify.server.ts)     | Utility that handles creating and parse multipass tokens.                                     |
| 🆕 [`app/lib/multipass/types.ts`](app/lib/multipass/types.ts)                                 | Types for multipass utilities.                                                                |
| 🆕 [`app/routes/account_.login.multipass.tsx`](app/routes/account_.login.multipass.tsx)       | API route that returns generated multipass tokens.                                            |
| [`app/components/Cart.tsx`](app/components/Cart.tsx)                                          | Hydrogen cart component, which gets updated to add the `<MultipassCheckoutButton>` component. |

## Dependencies

| Module                                                                  | Description                             |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| 🆕 [`snakecase-keys`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/snakecase-keys)     | Convert an object's keys to snake case  |
| 🆕 [`crypto-js`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/crypto-js)               | JavaScript library of crypto standards. |
| 🆕 [`@types/crypto-js`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/crypto-js) | crypto-js TypeScript types              |

## Instructions

### 1. Install required dependencies

```bash
# JavaScript
npm i @snakecase-keys crypto-js

# TypeScript
npm i @snakecase-keys crypto-js
npm i --save-dev @types/crypto-js
```

### 2. Copy over the new files

- In your Hydrogen app, create the new files from the file list above, copying in the code as you go.
- If you already have a `.env` file, copy over these key-value pairs:
  - `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STORE_MULTIPASS_SECRET`
  - `SHOPIFY_CHECKOUT_DOMAIN`

### 3. Edit the Cart component file

Import `MultipassCheckoutButton` and update the `CartCheckoutActions()` function. Wrap the standard `<Button>` component with the `<MultiPassCheckoutButton>` component:

```tsx
// app/components/Cart.tsx

import {MultipassCheckoutButton} from '~/components';

// ...

function CartCheckoutActions({checkoutUrl}: {checkoutUrl: string}) {
  if (!checkoutUrl) return null;

  return (
    <div>
      <MultipassCheckoutButton checkoutUrl={checkoutUrl}>
        <Button>Continue to Checkout</Button>
      </MultipassCheckoutButton>
    </div>
  );
}

// ...
```

[View the complete component file](app/components/Cart.tsx) to see these updates in context.
