examples/infinite-scroll/README.md, before:

# Hydrogen example: infinite scroll collection page

This folder contains an example implementation of [infinite scroll](https://shopify.dev/docs/custom-storefronts/hydrogen/data-fetching/pagination#automatically-load-pages-on-scroll) within a product collection page using the [Pagination component](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/hydrogen/2024-07/components/pagination).

The example uses [`react-intersection-observer`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-intersection-observer) to detect when the `Load more` button is in view. A `useEffect` then triggers a navigation to the next page url, which seamlessly loads more products as the user scrolls.

A few side effects of this implementation are:

1. The page progressively enhances, so that when JavaScript has yet to load, the page is still interactive because the user can still click the `Load more` button.
2. As the user scrolls, the URL automatically changes as new pages are loaded.
3. Because the implementation uses the `Pagination` component, navigating back to the collection list after clicking on a product automatically maintains the user's scroll position.

## Install

Setup a new project with this example:

```bash
npm create @shopify/hydrogen@latest -- --template infinite-scroll
```

## Key files

This folder contains the minimal set of files needed to showcase the implementation.
Files that aren’t included by default with Hydrogen and that you’ll need to
create are labeled with 🆕.

| File                                                                       | Description                 |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| [`app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx`](app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx) | The product collection page |

## Instructions

### 1. Link your store to inject the required environment variables

```bash
npx shopify hydrogen link
```

### 2. Edit the route loader

In `app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx`, update the `pageBy` parameter passed to the `getPaginationVariables` function call to customize how many products to load at a time.

```ts
const paginationVariables = getPaginationVariables(request, {
  pageBy: 8,
});
```

Commit message:

feat: convert examples from diff-based to standalone applications
Complete conversion of 9 examples to standalone React Router 7.8.x applications.
These examples now include all necessary files and configurations to run
independently without relying on the diff system.

Converted examples:
- b2b: B2B commerce with company locations and price breaks
- custom-cart-method: Custom cart implementation example
- gtm: Google Tag Manager integration
- infinite-scroll: Infinite scroll collection pages
- legacy-customer-account-flow: Legacy customer authentication
- metaobjects: Metaobject sections and store profiles
- multipass: Multipass authentication integration
- partytown: Partytown script optimization
- third-party-queries-caching: Third-party API caching

Each example now includes:
- Complete application code (components, routes, lib)
- Configuration files (vite, tsconfig, eslint, graphqlrc)
- Package.json with all dependencies
- Entry files and server configuration

examples/infinite-scroll/README.md, after:

# Hydrogen example: infinite scroll collection page

This folder contains an example implementation of [infinite scroll](https://shopify.dev/docs/custom-storefronts/hydrogen/data-fetching/pagination#automatically-load-pages-on-scroll) within a product collection page using the [Pagination component](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/hydrogen/2024-07/components/pagination).

The example uses [`react-intersection-observer`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-intersection-observer) to detect when the `Load more` button is in view. A `useEffect` then triggers a navigation to the next page url, which seamlessly loads more products as the user scrolls.

A few side effects of this implementation are:

1. The page progressively enhances, so that when JavaScript has yet to load, the page is still interactive because the user can still click the `Load more` button.
2. As the user scrolls, the URL automatically changes as new pages are loaded.
3. Because the implementation uses the `Pagination` component, navigating back to the collection list after clicking on a product automatically maintains the user's scroll position.

## Install

Setup a new project with this example:

```bash
npm create @shopify/hydrogen@latest -- --template infinite-scroll
```

## Dependencies

This example requires the `react-intersection-observer` package, which is automatically installed when you create a project with this template.

## Key files

This example modifies the collections page to add infinite scroll functionality.

| File                                                                       | Description                                                            |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx`](app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx) | Modified collection page with infinite scroll using react-intersection-observer |

## Instructions

### 1. Link your store to inject the required environment variables

```bash
npx shopify hydrogen link
```

### 2. Edit the route loader

In `app/routes/collections.$handle.tsx`, update the `pageBy` parameter passed to the `getPaginationVariables` function call to customize how many products to load at a time.

```ts
const paginationVariables = getPaginationVariables(request, {
  pageBy: 8,
});
```
